# r-process
Repository for Nuclear Astrophysics Research at MSU with Jaideep Singh and Luke Roberts

This README file contains basic info about each directory, such as purpose and logic


Temperature_Calculations: This directory exists to isolate the temperature calculations from the abundance calculations and so forth. It contains plots of Skynet outputted temperatures as well as modified temperature plots. The first modified temperature plot is for the linear temperature-time relationship in log-log space, or the radiation-based adiabatic model. The second one, which is located in the "Automatic Calculations for Temperature" .ipynb file, is the Photon Gas Non-Adiatic model. The third temperature model, namely the Photon Gas and Baryon Component one, is also located in the "Automatic Calculations for Temperature" .ipynb file but is commented out because it requires too much outside information. It is however defined in the Abundance_Calculations/Total Charge State Abundances directory in the "Official_Abundance_Calculation_Multiple_Ye_Interpolated.ipynb" file.

Technote_and_Tables: This directory exists to store all the versions of tables, figures, pictures, and technotes used in the research. The Technote itself is a document that contains all the information regarding the project such as the background, purpose, equations, and functions used in this code to calculate the charge state abundances. The current version of the technote is V4. 

Roberts' Example Codes: This directory exists to check Dr. Luke Roberts' version of abundance calculations and compare to the abundance calculations present through the code. 

Abundance_Calculations: This directory is the primary directory where most of the work and results exist. The Single_and_Initial_Multi_Element directory is the first versions of the abundance calculations. The abundance calculations were first done for a single element, in this case Sm. Once that was confirmed as correct, we moved on to two elements, namely Sm and Eu. Once that was confirmed, we generalized the calculations to N elements. The file named "Charge State Abundances of Samarium-NOT CORRECTED ISSUE OF UNDERFLOW.ipynb" is still present as it shows what abundance pattern calculationse existed prior to correcting the underflow issue. The file "Samarium Abundances with Luke's Method-COMPLETED.ipynb" is the single element calculation, the file "Multiple Elements Scenario.ipynb" is for 2 elements (still needed fine tuning), and the "Abundance_Calculation" is generalized with functions suitable for N elements calculations.
The Total Charge State Abundance directory contains the most advanced abundance calculations present. The many subdirectories present in it refer to Skynet data, interpolated Skynet data, previously calculated ionization state abundances, elemental abundances, and animations. In this directory, we start exploring the impacts Ye can have on the ionization state abundances. The file "Abundance_Function Single Ye.ipynb" is dedicated to understanding more about how the electron fraction can change over time and how that impacts the abundance patterns calculated. It only has one starting Ye value. The file "Charge State Abundances-Various Ye" builds upon the "Abundance_Function Single Ye.ipynb" file by studying what happens when different starting Ye values are used for Skynet. The file "Charge State and Isoelectronic State Abundance Analysis Single Ye.ipynb" file used only one Ye to better understand how the general ionization states changed over time as well as study isoelectron state abundances. Finally, the file "Official_Abundance_Calculation_Multiple_Ye_Interpolated.ipynb" is the most detailed set of abundance calculations present. This specific notebook is dedicated to calculating the ionization state abundances for various temperature-time models as well studying the effects of dispersed vs averaged Ye values on the abundance patterns. Some studies on the critical abundance and Ye values were also conducted. 

This document exists only to give brief explanations of the codes. A more detailed set of explanations can be found in the Technote_and_Tables directory via the technotes (use current version V4). 


